\documentclass{article}

\usepackage[accepted]{icml2012}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{xspace}
\usepackage{natbib}

\newcommand{\sklearn}{\textit{scikit-learn}\xspace}

% Dutch name sorting hack as per http://tex.stackexchange.com/a/40750/2806
\DeclareRobustCommand{\VAN}[3]{#2}

\begin{document}

\twocolumn[
\icmltitle{Scikit-Learn: a Machine Learning library in the Python ecosystem}

\icmlauthor{Gilles Louppe}{g.louppe@ulg.ac.be}
\icmladdress{University of Liège, Belgium}
% \icmlauthor{Gilles Louppe}{g.louppe@ulg.ac.be}
% \icmladdress{University of Liège, Belgium}

\vskip 0.3in
]

\section*{Scikit-Learn}

The \sklearn project~\citep{pedregosa2011} is an increasingly popular machine
learning library written in Python.  It is designed to be both  simple and
efficient, useful to both experts and non-experts, and reusable in a variety of
contexts. The  primary aim of the project is to provide a compendium of
efficient implementations of classic, well-established  machine learning
algorithms with a simple and consistent API. Among other things, it includes
implementations of classical supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms,
tools for model evaluation and selection, as  well as tools for preprocessing
and feature engineering. \sklearn is distributed under the 3-clause  BSD
license, encouraging its free use in both commercial and academic settings.

Started in 2007, \sklearn is developed by an international team of over a dozen
core developers, mostly researchers from various fields of science. The project
also benefits from many occasional contributors proposing small bugfixes or
improvements. Because of the large number of developers, emphasis is put on
keeping the project maintainable. Code must follow quality guidelines, such as
style consistency and unit-test coverage. Documentation and examples are
required for all features, and major changes must pass code review by at least
two developers not involved in the implementation of the proposed change.


\section*{Integration into a scientific ecosystem}

The library has been designed to leverage standard tools of the scientific
Python ecosystem, including NumPy~\citep{vanderwalt2011} for efficient  storage
and manipulation of multi-dimensional arrays, SciPy~\citep{varoquaux2013scipy}
for more specialized data structures  (e.g. sparse matrices) and
implementations of lower-level scientific algorithms, and Matplotlib for
dynamic data visualization in two and three dimensions.

All algorithms within \sklearn are offered through a simple, non-intrusive and
elegant API consisting of a limited set of methods~\citep{buitinck2013api}. Its
consistency across the package makes \sklearn very usable in practice:
experimenting with different learning algorithm is as simple as substituting a
new class definition. Through composition interfaces, the library also offers
powerful mechanisms to express a wide variety of learning tasks within a small
amount of easy-to-read code. Finally, through duck-typing, the consistent API
leads to a library that is easily extensible, and allows user-defined
estimators to be incorporated into the \sklearn workflow without any explicit
object inheritance. In particular, the power and extensibility of the \sklearn
API is evidenced by its large and growing user-base as well as the appearance
of third-party packages that follow our conventions.


\section*{Demonstrations}

This presentation will include demonstrations of some of the most powerful and
popular algorithms in \sklearn.


\bibliographystyle{abbrvnat}
\DeclareRobustCommand{\VAN}[3]{#3}
\bibliography{sklearn-nips-mloss}

\end{document}
